## Experimental section

### Sample preparation

The as-received apricot shells were firstly washed and then broken into small particles by mechanical milling. The direct pyrolysis process was conducted at various temperatures (900 °C, 1100 °C, 1300 °C and 1500 °C). The obtained hard carbons were named as HAS-900, HAS-1100, HAS-1300 and HAS-1500, respectively. After further broken into smaller particles, the pyrolyzed carbons were reduced under the H2/Ar hybrid atmosphere (7: 93 in volume) at 800 °C for 2 h. The fianal hard carbons were named as HASH-900, HASH-1100, HASH-1300 and HASH-1500, respectively.

### Materials characterization

SEM and TEM images were captured by a Hitachi S-4800 microscope and a JEM-2100F microscope, respectively. FT-IR spectra was recorded by a FTIR spectrometer (Nicolet Magna-IR 560). The microcrystalline structure variation was investigated by XRD (Rigaku D/Max 2500) and Raman spectra (Renishaw MKI-2000). An ASAP 2020 analyzer was used to measure the porosity of the samples by Nitrogen adsorption. Brunauere-Emmette-Teller (BET) theory and density functional theory (DFT) tests were performed to measure the specific surface area and pore size distribution.

### Electrochemical measurements

A mixture composed of active material, carbon black (Super P, IMERYS) and polyvinylidene fluoride (PVDF) (HSV900, ARKEMA) in N-methypyrrolidine (NMP) (80:10:10 wt %) was coated on Cu foil and dried at 80 °C overnight to obtain the working electrodes with an active mass loading of ∼1.2 mg cm−2. The working electrodes, separator (glass fiber, Grade GF/D, whatman), electrolyte (1 M NaClO4 dissolved in ethylene carbonate (EC) and diethyl carbonate (DEC) (1:1 in volume), NC-009, Fosai)) were assembled under argon atmosphere in a glove box to obtain the 2430-type working coin cells. The amount of electrolyte is ca. 0.20 ml for one coin cell. The electrochemical performance was evaluated on the CHI660E electrochemical measurement system and the LAND CT2001A battery-testing instrument.
