## Experimental

### Materials synthesis

PSHC was prepared by a two-step synthesis approach, including hydrothermal treatment at a relatively low temperature and carbonization at a set of high temperatures. Figure 1 shows the schematic diagram of the synthesis route. Firstly, pistachio shells waste was collected from pistachio nuts which were purchased in the local market, washed with distilled water and ethanol by ultrasonic cleaning, and dried at 80 °C for 12 h in an electric oven. The first step was to immerse 4 g cleaned pistachio shells waste into 3 M NaOH solutions with a volume of 80 mL in a Teflon-lined stainless steel autoclave. Then the autoclave was sealed and placed in an electric oven at 165 °C for 6 h under the hydrothermal treatment that aimed at removing part of the lignin and hemicellulose of pistachio shells waste. After that, the samples were collected by vacuum filtration and washed by distilled water and ethanol several times until the pH value of the solution reached above 6, and then dried at 80 °C for 12 h. After the drying process, the fluffy and the pale pink precursor was obtained (Figure S1). Finally, the prepared precursor was carbonized at a set of temperatures from 800 to 1100 °C in a tube furnace under Ar flow for 2 h (a heating rate of 10 °C min−1) to obtain the black PSHC-X (X was the pyrolysis temperature) powders (Figure S1). As a comparison, we also prepared the direct pyrolysis carbon without any further treatment at 800–1100 °C under the same pyrolysis time (termed: PSDC-X).

### Materials characterization

Thermogravimetric analysis (TGA) was performed on a thermal analysis instrument (Netzsch STA 449 F3) with a heating rate of 10 °C min−1 (from room temperature to 1000 °C) in N2 atmosphere. X-ray diffractometer (XRD, Bruker D8) analyses were performed at 40 kV with Cu Kα radiation. Raman spectroscopy (Bruker VERTEX 70) was utilized to analyze the bonding characteristics and the existence of defects of the obtained materials. Nitrogen sorption analysis was carried out with a Brunauer–Emmett–Teller surface area analyzer (BET, BeiShiDe 3H-2000PM) at a liquid nitrogen temperature. Before analysis, all the materials were degassed under vacuum at 200 °C for 6 h. The pore size distribution was derived from desorption branch isotherms and the pore size was calculated based on Horvaih–Kawazoe (H–K) equation. The morphology of the samples were investigated by field-emission scanning electron microscopy (FESEM, MIRA3, TESCAN) and high resolution transmission electron microscope (HRTEM, JEOL JEM-2100F).

### Electrochemical measurements

The electrode slurry was prepared by mixing the as-prepared materials, Super P and polyvinylidene fluoride (PVDF) binder in a weight ratio of 8:1:1 dissolved in N-methyl-2pyrrolidinine (NMP) solvent, following by stirring for 2 h into a homogeneous condition. The slurry was uniformly pasted onto copper foil, and then dried in a vacuum oven at 120 °C for 12 h to manufacture the working electrode.

Electrochemical tests were performed with CR2025 type coin cell with sodium foil as the counter electrode and a Glass fiber membrane (Whatman) as the separator. Assembling of the coin cells was operated in an argon-filled glove box (Mbraun, Germany). The electrolyte was 1 M NaClO4 dissolved in ethylene carbonate (EC) and propylene carbonate (PC) in a volume ratio of 1:1. The coin cells were galvanostatically charged and discharged in a battery analyzers (LAND, Wuhan, China) over a range of 2.0–0.001 V versus Na/Na+ at different constant current density. Cyclic voltammetry (CV) tests were conducted on an electrochemical workstation (Chenhua, CHI660E) at a scan rate of 0.1 mV s−1. Electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) analyses were conducted with an applied initial voltage of 5 mV in the range of 100 kHz–0.01 Hz. All the electrochemical tests were carried out at room temperature.
